 
MINUTES 
SAN RAFAEL  CITY COUNCIL - MONDAY , OCTOBER 6 , 2025 
 
 
 
This meeting will be held  in-person . This meeting is being streamed to YouTube at 
www.youtube.com/cityofsanrafael .  
 
How to participate in the meeting:  
• You are welcome to come to the meeting and provide public comment in  person. Each speaker will 
have 2 -minutes  to provide public comment  per agenda item . 
• Submit your comments by email  to city.clerk@cityofsanrafael.org  by 4:00 p.m. the day of the 
meeting.  
 
If you experience technical difficulties during the meeting, please contact  city.clerk@cityofsanrafael.org . 
 
 
SPECIAL  MEETING AT 4 :00 P.M.  
San Rafael City Hall, Third Floor Conference Room 
1400 Fifth Avenue, San Rafael, CA 94901  
 
Watch Online:  
Watch on Webinar:  https://tinyurl.com/spcc -2025- 10-06 
Listen by phone: (669) 900- 9128  
ID: 829-1614- 4737#  
 
Present:   Vice Mayor Bushey (Left the room at 5:03 p.m., returned 5:05 p.m.)  
Councilmember Hill  
Councilmember Kertz   
   Mayor Kate  
Absent:   Councilmember Llorens Gulati  
Also Present : City Manager Cristine Alilovich    
City Clerk Lindsay Lara  
 
SPECIAL MEETING  
1. Special Meeting : 
 
a. Board s, Commission s, and Committee s Interviews  
Interview Applicants and Make Appointments to the Board of Library Trustees and the Fire 
Commission to the End of October 2029 (CC)  
 The City Council interviewed the following applicants for the Board of Library Trustees: Alexander Vahdat, Michael Polk and Caroline Doyle.  
 Vice Mayor Bushey moved, and Councilmember Kertz seconded to reappoint Alexander Vahdat and to appoint Michael Polk to the Board of Library Trustees to the end of October 2029.  
 
AYES:  Councilmembers:  Bushey , Hill, Kertz & Mayor Kate  
NOES:  Councilmembers:  None   
ABSENT:   Councilmembers:  Llorens Gulati  
 2  
 The City Council interviewed the following applicants for the Fire Commission: Donna 
McCusker, Kenneth Johnson and Robert Mittelstaedt.   
 Councilmember Hill  moved, and Councilmember Kertz seconded to reappoint Donna 
McCusker and Kenneth Johnson  to the Fire Commission to the end of October 2029.  
 
AYES:  Councilmembers:  Bushey , Hill, Kertz & Mayor Kate  
NOES:  Councilmembers:  None   
ABSENT:   Councilmembers:  Llorens Gulati  
 
Mayor Kate adjourned the meeting to Closed Session at 5:07 p.m.  
 
REGULAR MEETING AT 6:00 P.M.  
San Rafael City Hall, Council Chambers  
1400 Fifth Avenue, San Rafael, CA 94901  
 
Watch Online:  
Watch on Webinar: https://tinyurl.com/city -council -1   
Watch on YouTube: www.youtube.com/cityofsanrafael  
Listen by phone: (669) 444- 9171  
ID: 863-4489- 1398#  
 
Present:   Vice Mayor Bushey  
Councilmember Hill  
Councilmember Kertz   
   Mayor Kate  
Absent:   Councilmember Llorens Gulati  
Also Present:  City Manager Cristine Alilovich    
City Attorney Robert Epstein  
City Clerk Lindsay Lara  
 
Mayor Kate called the meeting to order at 6: 05 p.m. and invited City Clerk Lindsay Lara to call the 
roll. Councilmember Llorens Gulati was absent.  
 City Attorney Robert Epstein announced that no reportable action was taken in Closed Session; 
however,  the second case was continued  following the adjournment of the City Council meeting.   
 
Mayor Kate provided opening remarks, which included gratitude to City Staff,  an announcement 
of Walter Gonzalez named  as Employee of the Quarter for the 2
nd Quarter, how the Federal 
Government shutdown  affect s San Rafael , and a land acknowledgment.  
 
City Clerk Lindsay Lara informed the community that the in -person meeting would be recorded and 
streamed live to YouTube and through Zoom . She noted the two -minute timer for public comment 
and closed captioning on Zoom.   
 
OPEN SESSIO N – THIRD FLOOR CONFERENCE ROOM  – 5:00 PM 
2. Mayor Kate announce d Closed Session items . 
 
CLOSED SESSION  – THIRD FLOOR CONFERENCE ROOM  – 5:00 PM 
3. Closed Session:  
 3  
 a. CONFERENCE WITH LEGAL COUNSEL -  ANTICIPATED LITIGATION pursuant to 
Government Code Section 54956.9(d)(2) (2 potential cases)  
 
CITY MANAGER AND COUNCILMEMBER REPORTS:  
(including AB 1234 Reports on Meetings and Conferences Attended at City Expense)  
4. City Manager and Councilmember Reports:  
 
City Manager Cristine Alilovich  provided the following announcements and updates:  
• Downtown Library Grand Reopening  and appreciation to Staff  
• Fire Prevention Week  
• Fire at 32 Woodland Avenue today  
• Homelessness and Housing Subcommittee meeting to be held  October 21 at 11  a.m. at 
City Hall (in the large upstairs conference room)  
• Police Advisory and Accountability Committee meeting to be held  October 15 at 5:30 
p.m. at City Hall (in Chambers)  
• Pickleweed Park Ribbon Cutting & Movies in the Park to be held October 1 0 starting at 
5 p.m.   
• West End Block Party  to be held  October 10 from 6-9 p.m. downtown (from F to G 
Street s) 
• Public Safety Center Open House  (across from City Hall) to be held October 11 from 10 -
1 p.m.   
• Mill Valley Film Festival  is ongoing , October 2 -12  
• Halloween & Seasonal Community Events   
o Costume Swap at Pickleweed Park  to be held  October 14 from  4–6 p.m.    
o Floating Pumpkin Patch at Terra Linda Pool  to be held October 18 from  1–3 p.m.    
o Treat Walk at B Street Community Center  to be held  October 23 from 4 –6 p.m.   
o Trick -Or-Treat on Fourth Street hosted by the  Downto wn BID to be held 
October 25 from 1-3 p.m.  
 
City Councilmember Reports:   
• Vice Mayor Bushey reported on  the library reopening,  Porchfest, a San Rafael 
Sanitation District board meeting , the San Rafael High School  Hall of Honor 
celebration and Marin Sanitary Customer Appreciation Day . 
• Councilmember Kertz reported on the library ribbon cutting, the Marin Senior Fair, a 
Marin Wildfire Prevention  Authority  board meeting , the Marin Center for Independent 
Living’s new Executive Director Ted Jackson, Porchfest, a Marin County Council of 
Mayors and Councilmembers ( MCCMC ) Legislative and G eneral meeting, the Landfill 
Harmonic B and at Latino Chamber of Commerce, the Spirit of Marin Awards, the 
Badge Pinning Ceremony, a Sustainable San Rafael event  honoring Bill Carney , the 
Canal Alliance Community Fair, and the Mill Valley Film Festival  opening night.  
• Councilmember Hill reported on Porchfest and expressed appreciation for the 
volunteers, a MCCMC meeting, the Fire Department’s badge pinning and awards 
ceremony and the Sustainable San Rafael event . 
• Mayor Kate reported on Sonoma Marin Area Rail Transit  (SMART) , Transportation 
Authority of Marin  (TAM) , the Walk and Roll to school event, a Street Smarts campaign  
and the Marin G un Safety C ollaborative.  
 Mayor Kate invited public comment . 
 Speaker: Al Vetere  
 4  
 CONSENT CALENDAR:  
Mayor Kate requested item 5.b be removed from the Consent Calendar for comments.  
 
Mayor Kate invi ted public comment  on the remainder of the Consent Calendar.  
 Speaker: Al Vetere  
 
Vice Mayor  Bushey  moved and Councilmember Kertz  seconded to approve the  remainder  of the 
Consent Calendar.  
 
AYES:  Councilmembers:  Bushey , Hill, Kertz & Mayor Kate  
NOES:  Councilmembers:  None   
ABSENT:   Councilmembers:  Llorens Gulati  
 
Item 5.b  
Director of Community and Economic Development Director Micah Hinkle presented the Staff 
Report for item 5.b.  
 
Staff responded to questions from the City Council.  
 
Mayor Kate invited public comment.  
 
Speakers: Don Dickens on, Craig Fen ech, Ron Cl yman , Sara Sonnet, Michael Poryes , Name 
Withheld,  Chris Weiker,  Tim Blair, Gary Ragghianti  
 Staff responded to questions raised during public comment.  
 City Councilmembers provided comments.  
 
Vice Mayor Bushey  moved and Councilmember Hill seconded to approve item 5.b.  
 
AYES:  Councilmembers:  Bushey , Hill, Kertz & Mayor Kate  
NOES:  Councilmembers:  None   
ABSENT:   Councilmembers:  Llorens Gulati  
  
Adopted Resolution 1546 4 
 
5. Consent Calendar Items:  
 
a. Approval of Minutes  
Approve Minutes of the  Regular  City Council Meeting  of September  15, 2025 (CC)  
Approve d minutes as submitted  
 
b. Agreement for Environmental Consulting Services for the Dominican Residential Development 
Project and Associated Supplemental Fiscal Year 2025- 2026 Budget Appropriation  
Resolution Authorizing the City Manager to (1) Execute a Professional Service s Agreement 
with Environmental Science Associates  (ESA) In an Amount Not to Exceed $675,221 for 
Environmental Consulting Services for the Dominican Residential Development Project 
(PLAN23 -081) Located at Assessor’s Parcel Number (APN) 015- 163-03 and (2) 
Appropriate Supplemental Fiscal Year (FY) 2025- 2026 Budget Appropriations  Totaling  
$675,221 (CED)  5  
 Adopted Resolution 1546 4 
 
c. Replacement of Fire Hoses and Nozzles  
Resolution Authorizing the City Manager to Execute Purchase Orders for Firefighting 
Hoses from L.N. Curtis & Sons, Inc., In an Amount Not to Exceed $82,506 , and for Hoses 
and Nozzles from Allstar Fire Equipment Inc., In an Amount Not to Exceed $152,718 (FD)  
Adopt ed Resolution  1546 0 
 
d. Wireless Access Point Upgrade  
Resolution Authorizing the City Manager to Execute  a Purchase  Order  for the Replacement 
of Wireless Access Points,  In an Amount Not to Exceed $128,299 (DS)  
Adopt ed Resolution  1546 1 
 
e. Information Technology Services Agreement Renewal  
Resolution Authorizing the City Manager to Execute a General Service Agreement with 
Xantrion, Inc., for Information Technology Services from November 1, 2025, through 
October 31, 2026, In an Amount Not to Exceed $1,207 ,200 (DS)  
Adopted Resolution 1546 2 
 
f. Cyber security Awareness Month  
Proclamation  in Recognition of Support of Cybersecurity Awareness Month (DS)  
Receive d and file d 
 
g. Measure C –  Wildfire Prevention Fund  
Resolution Authorizing a Fiscal Year (FY) 2025- 26 Supplemental Budget Appropriation 
from Measure C, Wildfire Prevention Fund (242) Fund Balance In the Amount of 
$1,108,319 to Support Ongoing Wildfire Prevention Efforts (Fin)  
Adopted Resolution 1546 3 
 
SPECIAL PRESENTATIONS  
6. Special Presentations  
 
Mayor Kate invited public comment; however, there was none.  
 
a. Presentation of Proclamation in Recognition of Fire Prevention Week 2025 (FD) 
Mayor Kate presented the proclamation  and Fire Chief Abraham Roman provided 
comments.  
 
OTHER AGENDA ITEMS  
7. Other Agenda Items  
 
a. Capital Project Management Services Contract for Albert Park Library & Community 
Center and Measure P Project Update  
Resolution Authorizing the City Manager to Execute a Professional Services Agreement 
with Griffin Structures for Albert Park Library & Community Center Capital Project Management Services, In an Amount Not to Exceed $350,000 in FY 2025- 26; And 
Subsequent Amendments Based on Each Fiscal Year’s Appropriation for a Total Contract Amount Not to Exceed $4,440,606 Through Project Completion; Measure P Project Update  (CM) 
 
Assistant City Manager John Stefanski presented the Staff Report  and introduced  Gary 6  
 Chubb, Griffin Structures who provided comments.  
 
Staff responded to questions from the City Council.  
Mayor Kate  invited public commen t; however, there was none.  
 
City Councilmembers provided comments.  
 
Vice Mayor  Bushey  moved and Councilmember  Hill seconded to adopt the R esolution 
authorizing the City Manager to e xecute a Professional Services Agreement with Griffin 
Structures for Albert Park Library & Community Center c apital project management 
services, In an a mount not to e xceed $350,000 in FY 2025 -26; and subsequent amendments 
based on e ach fiscal year’s appropriation for a t otal contract amount not to e xceed 
$4,440,606 through project completion; Measure P p roject update . 
 
AYES:  Councilmembers:  Bushey , Hill, Kertz & Mayor Kate  
NOES:  Councilmembers:  None   
ABSENT:   Councilmembers:  Llorens Gulati  
  
Adopted Resolution 1546 5 
 
b. Wildfire Prevention Efforts in San Rafael from 2019- 2025  
Informational Report on the  38-Point Wildfire Prevention and Protection Action Plan  (FD)  
 
Wildfire Mitigation  Program Manager  Kate Anderson and Deputy Director of Emergency 
Managemen t Quinn Gardner presented the Staff Report.  
 
Staff responded to questions from the City Council.  
 Mayor Kate  invited public commen t. 
 Speakers: Salamah, Sherna Deamer , Montecito Area Residents ’ Association, Belle Cole  
 
Staff responded to questions raised during public comment.  
 
City Councilmembers provided comments.  
 
Councilmember Kertz  moved and Vice Mayor Bushey  seconded to a ccept the report and 
proposed revision . 
 
AYES:  Councilmembers:  Bushey , Hill, Kertz & Mayor Kate  
NOES:  Councilmembers:  None   
ABSENT:   Councilmembers:  Llorens Gulati  
  
Accept ed report and proposed revision
 
 
OPEN TIME FOR PUBLIC EXPRESSION  
• Steve Danaher  addressed the City Council regarding crime at 7 -Eleven on B Street.  
• Sergio Barajas , Carpenters Union Local 35,  addressed the City Council regarding  labor 
stand ards for upcoming projects  in San Rafael . 
• Tammy Edmonson , MVF REE, addressed the City Council regarding the Police Advisory and 7  
 Accountability Committee . 
• Ed Rusky , MVF REE,  addressed the City Council regarding the Police Advisory and 
Accountability Committee.  
 
ADJOURNMENT:  
Mayor Kate adjourned the meeting at 8:16 p.m.  
 
__________________________  
                                                                                             LINDSAY LARA, City Clerk  
  
                                                                                APPROVED THIS _____DAY OF____________, 202 5  
  
                                                                                    _____________________________________  
                                                                                        KATE COLIN, Mayor    
 
 